Hello and welcome back to the course on power be-I.
Today we starting a brand new section and we're talking about long term unemployment statistics in the
U.S. and we're going to learn how to build stacked era charts.
Going to be exciting session ahead.
Let's dive straight into it.
All right.
The first thing we're going to need is a browser.
We're going to go to that super sized dot com slash power be-I.
And here if you scroll down to the bottom or an octave on to section number three times use aggregation
and filters.
Here we're going to be able to download the data set.
So go ahead and click on that long term unemployment statistics.
So the focus of this section is actually going to be also time series data and we're going to learn
a lot about aggregation.
So quite a lot of things that we're going to cover of In this section of the course.
All right so once the file is downloaded Let's have a look at what we can see inside.
So there it is.
And here you will see an interesting formatting of the file.
You'll see that we've got age groups and bear in mind so age is not a numeric verbal here it's a categorical
variable so we're very they've very been grouped for us.
And if you scroll down you'll see that they repeat themselves.
They tend to repeat themselves.
And why is that.
Well that is because of the way this file is structured.
So in the first column you've got age groups right so 16 to 19 20 24 25 30 45 44 45 54 of 64 65 and
over.
So that's a total of seven age groups.
And then we just continuously repeat themselves.
And that is because here we've got all the age groups for men.
Then we've got them for women.
But then again men repeat themselves and women repeat themselves.
And why.
All that is because here we've got to January 2005.
Right.
So we've got first we're looking at generally 2005 at all the male the male segment and then we're looking
at the different age groups and we're looking at Gerrish thousand five at the female segment and then
at all of the age groups and then we're moving on to February 2005 the next month again we need to look
at the male segment and all of the age groups there then we look at the females February 2005 female
segment and all age groups there ever every single iteration that we do we've got and the number of
unemployed people in that specific segment.
So for example let's have a look here.
In January 2005 in the male segment in the age group 34 35 to 44.
There were twenty two.
There were two hundred and one thousand unemployed people in that specific segment.
And so it just goes on like that.
So there's we still 2005 2006 and so on and so on all the way to 2015.
Right so we go up to February selling 15.
So the question is why is it so like structure why is the data structured in such an interesting and
inhuman way.
And the answer is in the question itself it's because this data is prepared for machines is prepared
for the computer to process it quickly and efficiently.
And it is very different indeed to what humans are used to so as humans we'd be more used to something
like this.
So here I've got a picture of an excel sheet and this is what would be used to write would be used to
having age on the left.
Here this is one of the ways we would have structure as humans age in the last year.
Then you've got your months January February and so on.
And then within each month we've got two segments.
Males.
Females are men women men women.
And so if you need to look up for instance quickly September 2005 45 to 54 years old.
You'd go on the top you'd look very quickly.
All right September 2005 and let's say you need the female segment.
So there it is.
And then you look over here 45 to 54 years old so that's a third one from the bottom September 2005.
There we go hunt 152 thousand unemployed.
Right.
So it's much quicker and much easier and very visual to work with this data.
But the thing is machines aren't visual they don't need this visual aid for them.
It's much easier to work like this for a machine and be much quicker to analyze this and it would find
the results faster than we would in this much faster than we would in this type of format.
And so even though we are not used to this this is the correct format for the machines or for a computer
using machines like we're in some sort of movie.
It's the correct format for the computer or for par vi to quickly process this data.
All right so we've quite closely learned about this data set.
Now let's go ahead and imported into power be-I.
Here's a blank fresh workbook.
Let's get data.
This is an excel file and there it is an up that's on it.
It's in section 3 Let's get a second.
So again you can so here you can see a couple of sheets.
These are empty.
Right.
So this is the one we want check box here.
Click load and give it a second to load.
All right so there you go the datasets and left you can just make sure confirm that everything is good
here.
So one thousand seven hundred eight rows and you can always just go and check that that is the correct
number.
So if you go to the bottom here you've got 1709 minus the header which is wrong.
But one makes it one thousand seven hundred and eight rows as we can see here.
It's always good to confirm that we loaded the right number of rows.
All right so that's how we load this data into our visualization and starting from the next tutorial
we're going to start visualizing the data set and deriving insights about the actual unemployment numbers
in the US is going to be exciting.
I look forward to seeing you in the next tutorial.
And until then be analyzing.